Hello, dear listeners. My name is Konstantin Yevchenko.
I have been working in logistics and delivery systems for more than 10 years.
My experience includes projects in the energy sector, food industry, transport and logistics.
The purpose of the course is to give an overview of the delivery management system,
describe the main elements of the system and their role in the operation management process,
determine the main indicators of the efficiency measurement,
learn to identify and distinguish the delivery system and its elements using the example of existing companies.
I would like to talk about the target audience. I would divide it into two groups.
The first group is the listeners who do not work in the sphere of delivery management,
but who need general knowledge and understanding of the processes in this area.
The second group is the listeners who are involved in the process of operation management of the enterprise
and plan to study the subject of delivery management, logistics and operational management in more detail in the future.
I would divide the skills that should be acquired at the end of the course into the following groups.
The first group is the listeners who are interested in the main tasks and goals of the delivery management system,
distinguish the main elements of the system and know its functional tasks,
understand how these elements interact with each other and, using the example of existing companies,
determine the main indicators of the efficiency measurement.
This video course can be divided into three parts.
The first part is the introduction, where we will consider the main concepts,
the purpose, the history of the system and its delivery.
The second part is the main part, where we will consider the main elements,
how they interact with each other and the criteria for measuring the efficiency of the system.
And the last part, where we will summarize and consider the prospects for further study.
The management of delivery systems is part of operational management.
I would like to briefly focus on the concept of operational management.
The main condition for the quality development of any company and its level of competitiveness
is how well management of resources and reserves is organized.
It is in the effective distribution of resources that the main task of operational management is.
Operational management is the development of organizational systems
that provide the most effective use of materials, human resources, equipment,
and production facilities in the process of production or service.
Of course, the delivery system is one of the main parts.
The main task of the enterprise is to acquire raw materials and materials in any form,
from raw materials, components, services.
In the future, the transformation of raw materials into ready-made products
and the delivery of ready-made products to the end consumer will take place.
In this regard, the role of the delivery system is to provide services for the search for raw materials,
purchase and delivery of it to the enterprise, storage of raw materials and ready-made products in the warehouse,
and the distribution of ready-made products.
Before describing in more detail the principles of the delivery system management,
let's take a closer look at the system itself and its components.
The delivery system is a chain or network of organizations interacting with each other,
connected by various processes or types of activities for the production of a product or service
and delivery of this product to the end consumer.
We can highlight four areas of the system's functioning.
These are production, storage management, transportation of raw materials and information management.
As part of this course, I would suggest to include and add planning to these areas as a very important element for study.
The diagram shows the movement of materials, money flow and information between the supplier and the consumer.
I would like to say that production is not directly a part of the delivery system,
but the delivery system is a functional part of production.
There are three types of delivery systems – basic or simple, expanded and limited or basic.
For example, the basic system can be described as follows.
Imagine a farmer who has grown an apple and sold it to a direct consumer.
There are no additional links between them.
The expanded system could be described as follows.
A farmer delivers an apple to a transport company that delivers it to the end consumer.
Finally, the limited or basic and the most complex delivery system can be illustrated as follows.
A farmer grows an apple and delivers it to a transport company that delivers it to a processing plant, for example, a juice producer.
The processing plant makes juice from the apple, packs it and delivers it to a trading organization.
The trading organization directly sells it to the end consumer.
To sum up, the delivery system is a coordination of production,
management of supplies and transportation between system participants
with the aim of responding to the client's request and fulfilling this request.
The goals and tasks of the delivery system are coordinated with the company's common goals.
Speaking about the delivery system in the organization,
I would like to note that throughout my professional career I have never met a company
that did not plan to implement any improvements in its activities.
All these changes and improvements are somehow related to the goal of increasing profits
or reducing costs, which in turn also allow to increase profits.
Regardless of the form of management and ownership, the sphere of activity, industry,
any organization or company that sets a goal to provide its client with a certain product
has the opportunity to reduce costs for providing this product.
For the production of the end product, be it a product or a service,
the product goes through a so-called chain of values.
The meaning of this term is that at each stage of the raw material passing through this chain,
the enterprise adds some value to the original type of raw material and components.
The term value chain was introduced by Michael Porter in 1985.
Let's take the example of the production of an apple juice package.
When a farmer grows an apple and passes it to a processing enterprise,
which then produces a juice package from it,
we essentially have an apple as a processing subject all the time.
But at each stage, a certain value is added to the apple as raw material.
As a result, the client gets an apple juice packaged in a beautiful package with a tube for end consumption.
Thus, it can be summed up that the goal of managing the supply system is to create an organization
that would allow the end consumer to get the best quality product with the best conditions for a fair price.
The diagram shows a schematic representation of the Michael Porter value chain.
The value chain consists of five basic elements.
The first element is the input logistics or supply of raw materials,
the second element is the purchase, the third element is the production unit,
the fourth element is the outgoing logistics or distribution of the finished product,
the fifth element is the marketing of the finished product and the fourth element is the service service or after-sales service.
As I said, production does not directly enter the system.
But we can note that the management of the supply system takes part in the development of design,
size, packaging of the finished product.
The definition of the concept of the management of the supply system.
Although the subject of the management of the supply system is considered separately in this course,
it is part of the discipline of operational management.
In a nutshell, I would like to say that this is a discipline that studies how an organization produces and delivers goods or services
on the basis of which the main product of the company is produced.
The main condition for the quality development of any company and its competitiveness level
is how successfully its management is organized by production resources.
It is in the effective distribution of company resources that the main task is completed.
The basis of the enterprise's work is the acquisition of raw materials in any form,
from raw materials and components to materials and services,
transformation into finished product,
and the sale and delivery of finished products to the end consumer.
In this regard, the role of the supply system is to provide services for the search for raw materials,
purchase, delivery to the enterprise, storage of raw materials and finished products in the warehouse,
and the delivery and distribution of finished products to the end consumer.
Before describing in more detail the principle of managing the supply system,
let's look at the system itself and its components.
There are many definitions of the supply system.
This is due not only to the fact that when translated from English,
the term supply chain is referred to as a supply chain, a supply system, a purchase system, a supply system, and so on.
I will give the most frequently mentioned definition.
This is a chain or network of organizations interacting with each other,
connected by various processes or types of activity for the production of a product or service,
and the delivery of this product or service to the end consumer.
Traditionally, it is believed that there are four areas of operational management,
where companies carry out activities related to the management of the supply system.
These are production, management of supplies, transportation of raw materials, and management of information.
However, based on practical application and own experience,
we propose to add another block of planning.
The schematic of the supply system can be presented as follows.
On the diagram, you can see that the movement of materials
occurs from the supplier to the consumer.
In turn, there is a flow of money in the form of payment for the finished product from the consumer to the supplier.
And on top you see the information flow, which means the determining movement of information,
which goes both in one and the other direction.
I would like to note that the production block does not directly enter the supply management system,
but rather is a user of the system services.
However, in this course, we will consider it as the main element of the operational management of the enterprise.
The general definition of the concept of the supply system can be divided into three categories.
Basic or simple, expanded, and limited or basic.
The basic or simple supply system is a direct connection between the supplier or producer
and the end consumer without links, without accompanying elements.
An example is a farm, which has grown an apple and supplied it to the end consumer.
The expanded supply system is a more complex system and can include some elements.
For example, a farmer who has grown an apple,
gives it to a transport company, which then delivers it to the end consumer.
And finally, the limited or basic system, which can include more complex elements,
such as a farm, which has grown an apple,
and a transport company, which delivers it to a processing plant.
The processing plant processes the apples and produces juice.
Then it is packed in a plastic bag and delivered to the warehouse,
where the trading organizations take the finished product and sell it to the end consumer.
These are very simplified examples, but they do not fully show the whole process of the supply system.
To summarize, the process of the supply system management can be defined as the coordination of production,
management of supplies and transportation between organizations and system participants
in order to respond to the client's request and to carry out this request effectively.
Speaking about the goals and tasks of the supply system in an organization,
I would like to note that throughout my entire career I have never met a company
that would not make any changes in its company.
Very often these changes, if not always, aim to increase profits or reduce costs,
which also allow to increase profits.
Regardless of the form of management and ownership, the sphere of activity, industry,
any organization that sets a goal to provide its consumer with a certain product
has the ability to reduce costs for the production of this product.
After passing through the so-called chain of values, the raw material undergoes changes
that allow the final consumer to produce the product or product from the raw material.
Here we need to explain the term chain of values through which the product is processed.
To illustrate this statement, let's take an example that we used earlier.
The production of a package with apple juice.
Initially, the fruit is picked from the tree and delivered to the farm warehouse.
Then the fruit is delivered to the warehouse of the processing enterprise,
which transforms the fruit into juice, packs it in a package and sells it to the trading organization.
In fact, we have been producing operations with apples all the time,
but at each stage the raw material becomes closer to the form of the finished product.
The more complex the product, the more complex the process of transformation of raw material into a finished product.
It should be noted that the idea of the value chain was proposed by a famous researcher
in the field of economics and management, Michael Porter, in 1985.
His book is called Competitive Advantages of Creating and Maintaining the Best Performance Indicators.
The slide shows a schematic image of the essence of this concept.
The value system is a chain of certain actions.
The product goes through all the links of the chain, and each link adds a certain value to the initial product.
Michael Porter saw the main goal of an effective supply chain as the creation of a competitive advantage.
The goal of effective supply chain management is to create an organization
that would provide the end consumer with the best quality product with the best conditions.
Now let's talk about the tasks.
Each supply chain has its own unique features, which are dictated by the industry, the business sphere, and the company's features.
At the same time, the tasks and issues that arise before the managers of the supply chain have a lot in common,
regardless of the above factors.
The tasks can be classified into five areas.
These are production, stock, location, transport, and information.
The tasks related to the production sphere answer the questions of what product to produce,
what design should be in this product, and what form.
The tasks related to the supply chain management answer the question of how much we should produce,
how much we should store.
The tasks related to the location sphere determine the location of production,
storage, transportation, and transport.
The tasks related to transport answer the questions of how the supplies are moved from one element to another,
how and what transport should be chosen, and in what situation and what transport should be used.
The tasks related to information and information management answer the following questions.
What information is necessary for making effective decisions?
How often and from which units should it be received?
The answers to these questions help to better coordinate the activities not only within the company,
but also with suppliers, end customers, and end consumers.
High-quality and timely information helps to make effective decisions about what and how much to produce,
where to store, and what type of transport to use.
To illustrate the scheme of the supply system, let's go back to our example with the production of a juice package.
The tasks that are presented to the managers of the supply system and which are part of the production block
are the design of the product, the decision on what product to produce,
whether to produce apple juice, carrot juice, or pear juice,
what packaging should be used, and what packaging size should be used.
The next stage is to decide on the quantity and what stocks should be stored in the raw materials warehouse,
what stocks of finished product.
In the future, it will be important to decide on the location of production, where to produce this juice.
For example, at a company that is located close to a raw material source,
or raw materials should be transported to another place, where there is a lot of power for processing.
The question of transportation arises.
How to transport raw materials, how to transport finished products by car, by railway?
And finally, the final stage is the exchange of information.
First of all, in this case, it will be information from the client.
How satisfied is he with the product?
Did he receive the product?
Was there a payment?
And so on.
Historical development of the supply system.
The supply system takes its origin from the discipline of logistics.
Although the interest in studying the functions of purchases and supplies is a subject for more detailed study in the second half of the 20th century,
the subject of logistics has a centuries-old history.
One of the first mentions of the management of supply systems and effective supply management
can be found in the time of Alexander the Great.
When he attacked a new territory, the main task of his army was to concentrate troops near the resources.
Food, water, transport flows, ports, roads.
In the future, we can find mentions of the term logistics.
And who first introduced this term logistics?
It was Napoleon's army.
Just like Alexander the Great, Napoleon considered the main task of successful offensive and successful army operation
to provide food, weapons and supplies for his army.
After the Second World War, the ability of companies to obtain raw materials was a main task and component of their success.
During the 1950s and 1960s, the sphere of companies' activities continued to develop,
and the supply system as a method began to acquire a more specific form.
This can be traced back to the development of the company's structure.
If the position of the head of the supply department was at a low level,
then the company, realizing the importance of this structure in the enterprise,
raised the head of the procurement department to the level of the director of supply or even the vice president of procurement and supply.
I have already mentioned that the concept of the supply system originates from logistics.
I would like to note one very important point.
What is the difference between the supply system and logistics?
I would like to highlight three points.
First, the sphere or area of logistics activities is spread within the organization,
while the supply system is much wider, from supplier to supplier to customer to customer.
The supply system unites not only companies within one chain, but also various companies even in different industries.
Secondly, traditionally, the process of logistics management is associated with management of purchases,
distribution of products and management of stocks.
Returning to the introductory part of the course, we will see that the supply system is much wider.
As I said, it covers not only the traditional logistics sphere,
but also has its own relationship to planning and development of new products, finance and customer service.
Thirdly, the concept of the supply system management considers the supply chain and the associated organizations as a single whole and as an asset of the organization.
However, I would like to note that the main difference between the supply system and logistics
is the sphere on which the system spreads its activities,
from the moment of receiving raw materials to the end consumer.
The way we know the discipline of the supply system management now,
was introduced by the researchers in the mid-1980s.
The definition was developed to fully reflect the essence of this system,
the interaction of business processes from the supplier to the end consumer.
As for Russia and post-Soviet states, the popularity of studying this subject has recently acquired.
Partly, this is due to the economic decline of the early 1990s,
partly due to the fact that the definition itself was taken from the experience and research of Western specialists.
If we can agree that the concept of the supply system management is relatively new for the Russian business,
we cannot agree that it is a new concept.
For example, let's look at the times of the Soviet Union,
in particular, at the enterprises of the military-industrial complex.
For example, there was no space rocket production.
There were enterprises in Siberia that produced engines,
enterprises in Dnepropetrovsk, for example, that produced the hull,
enterprises in Moscow that produced electronics.
Thus, the joint activity of many enterprises led to the final product, the production of a rocket.
But the military-industrial complex is not the exclusive industry or sphere of application of the supply system.
We can take the production cooperation system,
which, unfortunately, led to bankruptcy of many enterprises after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
In particular, the automobile industry enterprises suffered a lot from this,
when the introduction of new customs restrictions led to the fact that it became unprofitable
to import components or components, to transport them across the border.
The loss of all these connections clearly showed that the supply system is not new for countries and enterprises of post-Soviet states.
Unfortunately, after the collapse of the Soviet Union,
many production and economic connections between organizations were interrupted,
and enterprises were forced to reorganize and customize their supply systems.
The planned economy and the unified economic space of the Soviet Union,
in many ways, contributed to the organization and effective interaction of all units of the supply system.
However, when it came to new market conditions in the early 90s,
many enterprises were not ready for new requirements.
At the same time, the Western economy and the production practice of Western countries
not only perceived the subject of managing the supply systems as necessary for study,
but also contributed to the development of this discipline.
It can be said that the development of the supply system has often contributed to the development of business as such.
Going back to the beginning of the 20th century, we can cite the example of Henry Ford.
He sought to conclude all industries that worked for the main business, for the production of cars,
under a single management system.
His empire included not only the production of car components,
but also the washing of special clothes for workers, the production of lunches,
and even the less important activities for the main production.
The next stage of the development of the supply system was the post-war years.
The development of Walmart, one of the largest trading networks in the world with a turnover of many billions,
contributed to the development of the supply system.
The way business processes were organized in this company largely contributed to its growth and development
to the extent that we can observe now.
The right organized supply system led to the fact that the company itself created a certain know-how in the trading business.
From the right supplier to the creation of a distribution center to the location of the supermarket.
This organization of business allows to keep low prices in its stores.
One of the most prominent examples of our days is Dell Computers.
You all know the high level of competition in the business of computer production.
Nevertheless, Dell, as of February 2008, is the world's leading company in the production of personal computers.
We need to take into account the high level of competition.
The management of the company organized its supply system in such a way that any customer who turned to Dell
can configure any computer modification for himself.
Imagine the size of Dell and how difficult it is for the company to make a single call and produce one computer for one customer.
But it is the effectively organized supply system that is the key to the success of this company today.
It should also be added that the idea and development of the concept of managing the supply system
has found its reflection not only in business, but also in science.
In the United States, Great Britain, Western Europe, there are many educational institutions
specializing in the study of the supply system and teaching this discipline.
Since the 1990s, some companies have switched to a new development cycle of the idea of managing the supply system.
They began to attract third-party organizations to cooperate, providing services that are not related to the main production.
For example, a production company that attracts a consulting or auditing accounting company for accounting.
The main criterion for making a decision to attract third-party organizations is to focus all the company's resources on the main production.
This type of services is called outsourcing.
For example, the British Airways company decided that it refused to produce lunches for passengers who use the services of this company.
It concluded a contract for food delivery from the company.
One of the latest examples of the Russian market is the company TNK-BP,
which decided to service its drilling facilities to third-party organizations
in order to free up human and financial resources for work in other areas.
Many companies use the services of third-party organizations that provide logistics services.
For example, a transport company that provides services to a company for the transportation of ready-made products or raw materials is a third-party organization for the company.
This allows the business to concentrate its efforts on the main activity and not to distract resources for auxiliary and secondary activities.
It should be noted that the outsourcing market of the delivery system was $30-40 billion in 2007.
This is the evolution of the value in the modern world.
The decisive factor that influenced the transformation of logistics into a modern delivery management system was the expansion of political and economic ties between states and companies.
The integration of economies of different countries led to the integration of production processes.
The process of globalization was the main factor that influenced the accelerated development of the delivery system as a business discipline.
Everyone knows the importance of the development of information technologies and the development of the Internet in the modern world,
especially the development of e-commerce, which influenced the modern business in the most radical way.
Everyone has used Internet shops or online services at least once in their life.
Since each organization strives to maximize profits and reduce costs, many changes in companies are associated with optimization and improvement of the delivery system.
As a result of the correct processes in the delivery system management, companies with multi-million turnover have grown in Russia over the past 10 years.
For example, after the crisis of the 1990s, the company Rosoboronexport managed to restore the old system and create new relations and connections with enterprises and suppliers that are part of the production cycle.
As I said, the enterprises of the fuel-energy complex, such as TNK, switched to a new scheme of operation of their drilling facilities.
The fact of building of new factories of the automotive industry is also a sign of the development of the delivery system in our country.
Companies such as Ford, Toyota, General Motors, Renault, Hyundai, Nissan are making decisions on the construction of factories of the full cycle in our country.
Optimization of the delivery process of materials and components, production of some of them in Russia, allows to significantly reduce costs for the production of cars, which increases the competitiveness of the product on the market.
I would like to mention another example of the transfer of industrial enterprises beyond the city limits.
In Moscow, there is a project to transfer industrial enterprises beyond the city limits. You can imagine how difficult it is for large suppliers to deliver raw materials to the city.
This is due to transport and infrastructure issues. Therefore, in order to optimize the delivery system, industrial enterprises are transferred beyond the city limits.
At present, it has become relevant to say that competition in the modern world no longer takes place between businesses as such, but between their delivery systems.
What are the main elements of the delivery system?
The main elements of the delivery system. In the main part of the course, we will consider the main basic elements of the delivery system. Their role, their importance, and the degree of communication with each other.
The delivery system combines the organization and business activity associated with the development of design, production, delivery, and end product or service to consumers.
Companies depend on their delivery systems, as they receive what they need to survive and develop through these systems.
In any case, each organization, in addition to its delivery system, is part of another delivery system. Let's take, for example, a transport company.
The transport company itself, which provides services, can be a component of the delivery system of the production enterprise,
delivering raw materials from the supplier to the production, and moving the finished product from the manufacturer to the trading organization or the client.
But the transport company can also have its own internal delivery system.
For example, the purchase of fuel lubricants, spare parts, accessories, services of auditing consultants, accounting, all this is part of the internal delivery system.
Thus, in the modern business world, every member of the delivery chain must know and understand clearly their role and place in this system, in order to ensure uninterrupted operation of the entire chain.
Companies that clearly see and understand their place and role and importance in the delivery chain can build a reliable delivery system,
and, without a doubt, have a much greater competitive advantage in the market, both in front of their competitors and in their sphere in general.
As mentioned earlier, there are five main spheres or elements of the delivery system.
These are production, stock, location, transport and information.
The clear and uninterrupted interaction of these elements and factors makes the company a leader in its field.
If we look at these factors in more detail, they can be broken down into the following elements.
These are planning, purchasing, logistics, production, transport, distribution, exchange of information,
sales administration and efficiency measurement of the system itself.
For illustration, we will give an example of apple juice production, where we consider the delivery system in a production organization.
In order to understand the type, price, and location of the juice, the producer must understand how much and at what price he can sell the juice to the trading enterprise.
Let's take a supermarket chain as a trading enterprise. Knowing or assuming how much juice will be sold, the supermarket makes an application to the manufacturer for a certain amount.
Based on the production capabilities, the manufacturer decides on the packaging design, the amount of raw materials, the number of batches, the production or delivery time.
This phase is called the planning phase.
The next stage is the purchasing process, that is, the search for a supplier of raw materials, a supplier of packaging materials, signing contracts for delivery, processing of orders for purchase.
After the supplier is found, the delivery terms are agreed, and the raw materials are received and stored.
The control of the raw materials flows is the next phase of the delivery system.
At this phase, the company must pay attention to the following details.
The quality of the application, the price of the purchased raw materials, the number of raw materials purchased, and the materials that were needed for production.
It is also important to coordinate the delivery of raw materials and packaging from the warehouse to the production plant in terms of quantity, quality and time.
It is ideal that after the production of a certain batch of products, there is no unfinished production, no leftovers.
But it is also important that there is no shortage of produced products.
The next phase of production is the process of transformation, as we have already said, of raw materials into a finished product.
After the product is produced, it is moved to the warehouse of the finished product for its subsequent delivery to customers.
In the warehouse, the product is formed in batches in accordance with the orders for sale, which the buyer sends.
The workers of the finished product warehouse form and complete the order and import it into the vehicle.
At this stage, the phase of managing the outgoing logistics ends.
Regardless of which organization, internal or external, is engaged in the transportation of products, the process of moving the finished product from the manufacturer to the consumer is very important.
At this stage, it is optimal to choose the type of transport.
In our case, imagine that the product is packed in boxes, marked and loaded into a truck.
Then, according to the order, this truck moves from the finished product warehouse to the supermarket warehouse.
In fact, the logistics of the delivery system ends here.
But how to find out whether the product is sold or arrived in time, in the designated place, in the designated quantity?
When and where should the next batch be placed?
For this, we need effective and qualitative information exchange, or rather, management of information flows.
At the same time, the main purpose of all these actions is to generate money.
But the issue of controlling the payment for the unloaded product is often laid on the financial department or the accounting department.
But in the classic example of the delivery system, this function is applied to specialists working in the delivery system.
This function is called sales administration.
And the question arises, how effectively all these connections work, how effectively they interact with each other,
how to measure their performance, what are the criteria for assessing the operation of the delivery system as a whole and for each of its participants.
The assessment is carried out in accordance with the criteria established in the company, which we will consider further along the course.
Now let's look at each of these elements in more detail.
In this section, we will consider the planning and forecasting process and types of activities in the delivery system.
Planning and forecasting are an integral part of the process of managing the delivery system, in particular, and the activity of the entire company as a whole.
The planning process affects not only the entire company, but also the process of purchasing, production, delivery, and even the quality of the product delivered to the end consumer.
However, the main task of the planning function is to provide the management with the opportunity to make correct and effective decisions at a specific time.
The main problem that managers face is how to plan the needs of the future and have answers to the following questions.
Who is responsible for planning future raw material costs? Can the supply department predict the sales department, production departments and, ultimately, consumer demand?
Should suppliers be forced to follow the planned or real needs?
To illustrate the importance and significance of planning for business and the organization as a whole, I would like to give an example of the Avon company.
Avon's activity in Europe began with the creation of a centralized information and planning department.
For the company, this project became the most important. According to the head of the delivery system, the company had no chance of achieving the goals if it did not have a centralized planning group,
which would help to collect and predict the needs and supplies throughout the region and react quickly to changes.
What were the main actions undertaken by the planning group? The first step was to create a general database.
The team of specialists spent months on the implementation of general production codes, description and other information that would allow specialists to standardize and unify the language in which sales teams communicate in different countries.
The use of a general database allowed Avon to track consumer demand and the level of production supplies not only in the local regions, but also throughout Europe.
This allowed managers to see the general picture from the point of view of demand and supply. The next important decision was to introduce an automated system of planning and management of the delivery system.
The goal was the same – coordination of the activities of all units in Europe. A single regional planning group was created to manage the new delivery system.
The planning group was given the authority to make decisions on the level of supplies, on the level of service, and on the costs of service. Thus, the most important goal was achieved – the ability to make the right decisions.
What is the planning process? It is obvious that planning involves the process of achieving goals at a certain time. It is a kind of roadmap for business development.
Planning and forecasting are divided into three categories – long-term, medium-term, and short-term. The planning process helps the manager to determine the goals, taking into account the available resources.
The following slide shows the levels of planning and their interaction. The strategic planning is long-term, when a company makes decisions for the future, and this applies not only to purchases, but also to the production.
The medium-term planning is short-term, and it is a basis for short-term or operational planning, which involves purchasing materials, planning production, and planning needs.
Traditionally, the main effect of the planning process is the production cycle, and it is not a coincidence. For any enterprise of any level of complexity and size, the development of the production schedule is the focus of the efforts and coordination of the supply and production departments.
The total time required for the production of the final product from the moment of order to the moment of production of the finished product, or as it is also called in English – lead time, is much longer than the period of technological production of the product in the production shop.
The longer the production process takes, the more expensive the product becomes. This is due to the costs of storing supplies, costs of labor, and long-term response to customer requests.
In the atmosphere of constantly growing competition, constantly changing requirements for the design of the product, the requirement of customers to reduce the development time of the production of new types of products, the planning of the supply system is given special attention.
The next key task of the planning process is to reduce the production time. It should be noted that the goals of the supply system management and planning tasks are characterized by the so-called 7N rule, which means 7 necessary ones.
The necessary product, i.e. design, packaging, in the required quantity, should be delivered to the required place, in the required condition, i.e. in quality, at the required time, to the required customer, at the required price, or, let's call it, at a fair price, at which the general necessary level of the supplier's income is formed.
It should be noted that the preparation of a detailed plan does not always guarantee 100% success, but the absence of a plan almost always guarantees a 100% failure, since the supply system is a complex mechanism, and planning its activities was a subject for special study by specialists.
Many planning techniques, methodologies, and planning models have been developed. Among them, we can mention MRP, or Material Requirement Planning, DRP, or Distribution Requirement Planning, which means planning of distribution requirements,
the Just-in-Time model, or JIT, which means exactly on time, and the Kanban system, which is often used in production facilities, is also a model.
Another model I would like to mention is the SCORE system, or Supply Chain Operation Reference, which is a standard planning system.
It is difficult to describe all these models and techniques in detail, so I will briefly describe the main features.
Material Requirement Planning, or Planning of Requirements in Raw Materials, is a model in which enterprises plan the supply of raw materials and tie them closely to the production schedule.
The goals of this planning model are to reduce stock and improve quality and reduce costs.
The feature of this system is that it allows, unlike other models, to coordinate both production and supply.
The best way to apply this system is to design enterprises with a long production cycle.
This is a system in which the type of production does not change, the design of the product does not change, the stable supply base does not change.
I can illustrate this with the example of companies that carry out service or maintenance services.
For example, the housing and utilities enterprise. They have a task to plan for a year to maintain communication networks.
The enterprise manager knows the time when the necessary materials for maintenance of a particular site will be needed.
He forms a supply schedule and a purchase schedule, and in accordance with this supply schedule, he receives the necessary materials, which are then immediately sent to production.
Distribution Requirement Planning is the planning of the needs in the distribution.
The feature of this system is that the planning of deliveries takes place based on sales schedules or forecasts.
A good example is the case of AVEN. Sales schedules or sales forecasts are sent to regional planning centers, and then the general information is sent to one central planning office.
Just-in-time and Kanban systems. These systems are usually closely linked to each other.
These systems are used mainly and if not exclusively in production enterprises of the conveyor cycle.
The meaning and characteristic differences of these systems are the maximum reduction of the remains of unfinished production or stocks, both in the production plant and in the warehouse.
Just-in-time is exactly on time. The meaning of this system is to get the necessary raw materials before the transformation of raw materials into ready-made products.
The Kanban system, which is often mentioned in the context of the Just-in-time system, means a card in Japanese.
This system was invented in Japan by a car manufacturer.
The meaning of the Kanban system is that the conveyor worker receives the necessary set of spare parts or components in the so-called conveyor.
The number of these components is exactly what is necessary for the assembly of the final product.
I will give an example. The car manufacturer has a goal to assemble a door for a car.
The car manufacturer receives a glass, rubber seal, metal door in a certain container. After assembly, there should be no part left in the conveyor.
This is achieved by both quality control and a significantly reduced time required to process this order.
The last model I would like to talk about is the SCORE system. It was developed by specialists and researchers of the Institute for the Management of Supply Systems in 1996.
The essence of this model is that a standard scheme of the operation of the supply system is drawn on paper, and then this system is implemented and implemented in the life of the existing company.
This model is based on three pillars. These are the modeling of the process, the measurement of the efficiency of the work, and the best practices.
The main elements of the SCORE model are planning, search for suppliers, purchasing, production and delivery.
As we have already mentioned, the incoming logistics is one of the primary stages in the entire supply chain or supply management system.
Surely, each of you can imagine that the process of purchasing is one of the most understandable and does not need to go into this subject.
Each of us makes purchases every day, either in a store or in a supermarket. But the importance of studying this subject in detail can be characterized by the fact that enterprises spend 40-70% of their income on the purchase of raw materials from third-party sources.
The purchase of goods of material value and services aims to provide enterprises with the necessary resources to ensure effective activity at the best and most fair price for the enterprise.
Purchasing goods and services can be divided into two groups. These are production and non-production. Production materials and services are called services that are necessary for the direct production of the company's main product.
If we recall the example of the production of a package with apple juice, then in this case the production purchases will be raw materials, i.e. apples, packaging, additional materials related to the maintenance of machines and equipment.
Non-production equipment will be transport services, for example, auditing companies or consulting companies, and non-production equipment will be services for maintenance.
To understand the functioning of the purchasing service, I would like to introduce the concept of an internal client. What is an internal client?
An internal client is an organization, a structure, or just one person who makes a direct order to the purchasing service to receive products, goods, or services.
Let's take a simple example of the interaction between an internal client and a purchasing service. For example, the purchase of a computer in the department of information systems.
The first stage is the adoption of a purchase decision, i.e. approved budget or signed statement with permission to use budget funds to purchase the necessary equipment.
All these documents are the basis for purchasing goods of material value, in our case, a computer. After the purchase plan is drawn up, the purchase order is made.
The following information must be reflected in it. First, who is the initiator, i.e. who is the so-called internal client? In our case, it can be the head of the department of information systems or one of the specialists in the department of information systems.
A very important point is the specification. In the case of a computer, there should be a description of some technical parameters. This is the type of computer, desktop, portable, memory, frequency, color, model, brand, quantity.
The quantity must be specified in the purchase order. The delivery conditions, the deadlines, the place where the computer should be placed. For example, if the branch network exists in the company and the head of the department of information systems buys computers for the entire company or branches, where should these computers be placed?
The final phase of the purchase order is authorization, i.e. permission of the budget owner or the owner of the funds, the head of the enterprise, to carry out this operation.
Of course, this is a simplified example and it cannot reflect all the actions that the specialist of the department of purchases carries out in his daily work. In this case, I would like to determine what tasks the purchase department has before the specialist after he received the application.
The first task is to develop a strategy of purchases based on the categories of goods on the existing market. The second task is to closely cooperate with the customer.
That is, there should be no misunderstandings in the specifications, there should be no disagreements. You need to use the technical knowledge, the specific knowledge of the customer for the most detailed description of the product.
The purchase department employee must apply a thorough approach to selecting suppliers, a so-called audit of suppliers must be carried out.
In this case, the period of work on the market, its loyalty to the company, the conditions in which it works on its market, its closest competitors are considered.
It is imperative to thoroughly study the specifications for the purchase of equipment. This will certainly bring the maximum benefit to the company, since in this case the risk of purchasing unnecessary products or materials is minimized.
The purchase department employee must clearly determine and be able to distinguish between companies that provide a low price and whether companies that provide a low price will be able to provide really high-quality goods.
It is imperative to control the delivery of goods to the warehouse. After the goods have been delivered to the warehouse, the purchase department employee must control the payment of this product.